Adding some content and diagrams to the WIP concepts (#505)
temporalio/documentation: docs/concepts-new/mesh.md

sidebar_label: Introduction
---

:::caution

This page is a work in progress!

:::

**Temporal's tenth rule**

> Any sufficiently complex distributed system contains an ad-hoc, informally-specified, bug-ridden, slow implementation of half of temporal.io.

## What is Temporal?

> [temporal.io](https://temporal.io) is a scalable and reliable runtime for Temporal Workflow Executions.

Reviewer: Including the website URL here seems misleading because the runtime doesn't live there. Change to simply "Temporal"?

<img class="docs-image-centered docs-image-max-width-50" src="/img/temporal-intro.png" />

A [Temporal Workflow Execution](#what-is-a-workflow-execution) (π) executes a [Temporal Workflow Definition](#workflow-definition), also called a Temporal Workflow Function, your application code, exactly once and to completion—whether your code executes for seconds, minutes, hours, days, months, or years, in the presence of arbitrary load and arbitrary failures.

> A Temporal Application is a set of Temporal Workflow Executions (Π). Each Temporal Workflow Execution has exclusive access to its local state, executes concurrently to all other Workflow Executions and communicates with other Workflow Executions and the environment via message passing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Temporal Application is a set of Temporal Workflow Executions (Π). Each Temporal Workflow Execution has exclusive access to its local state, executes concurrently to all other Workflow Executions, and communicates with other Workflow Executions and the environment via message passing.
```

> Workflow Executions are lightweight components, a Temporal Application may consist of thousands to hundreds of thousands of Workflow Executions. A Workflow Execution consumes few compute resources; in fact, if a Workflow Execution is suspended, for example if the Workflow Execution is in a waiting state, the Workflow Execution consumes no compute resources at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflow Executions are lightweight components. A Temporal Application can consist of thousands to hundreds of thousands of Workflow Executions. A Workflow Execution consumes few compute resources; in fact, if a Workflow Execution is suspended, such as when it is in a waiting state, the Workflow Execution consumes no compute resources at all.
```

> The temporal.io runtime

Reviewer: I'm guessing on intent here. Feel free to stet or change.

```suggestion
The Temporal runtime consists of the Temporal Server and Temporal SDKs.
```

Author: Ya, obviously spaced out and didn't finish that :)

## What is a Workflow?

> In day to day conversations, the term "Workflow" is frequently used to denote either a [Workflow Prototype](#what-is-a-workflow-prototype) or a [Workflow Execution](#what-is-a-workflow-execution). This document is explicit and differentiates between Prototype and Execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In day-to-day conversations, the term "Workflow" frequently denotes either a [Workflow Prototype](#what-is-a-workflow-prototype) or a [Workflow Execution](#what-is-a-workflow-execution). This document is explicit and differentiates between Prototype and Execution.
```

<img class="docs-image-centered docs-image-max-width-50" src="/img/prototype-execution-cardinality.png" />

### Workflow Prototype

Coming soon!

### Workflow Definition

Coming soon!

### Workflow Execution

> A Workflow Execution is a Reentrant Processes, that is, a resumable, recoverable, and reactive process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Workflow Execution is a Reentrant Process; that is, a resumable, recoverable, and reactive process.
```

At the moment, the diagram immediately follows this para, so I recommend replacing the colon with a period.

Author: I grouped the images for now.
I have some ideas on how to standardize these for size and resolution.
